# THE METEORITE AND ITS ORGANISMS

## By Professor Dr. Hermann Karsten

### In Schaffhausen

### With Figures

### (Separate print from the journal: "Nature", 1881, No. 14, 15, 16.)

#### Halle [Prussia],

#### Gebauer-Schwetschke'sche Book Publisher

Of all natural phenomena, which has not only been more persistently admired and widespread, but also dreaded, than the sporadically occuring meteors: storms accompanied by thunder and flashes, and the most silent and mysterious drifting comets and luminous spheres? Of all unusual phenomena, striking each and every one of us, which has remained inexplicable until this time other than these comets and meteorites, the rare cases of the latter appraching the Earth as balls of fire, tumbling down with thunderous patter? These stones are then discovered as angular fragments, slightly smooth and covered with a thin dark crust; this crust appears to be produced by the melting of the inner, unaltered mass, brought about by the heating undergone by the stone from friction against the atmosphere, through which it pierces at high speed. The friction during their passage through the atmosphere makes the stones glowing and luminous. In their various sizes they fall to the Earth, from many cubic feet of material weighing over 1000 talents, to bean size and sometimes even observed in the form of sand.

Some time ago I reported in these pages about small glowing stones recently fallen on people or in their immediate vicinity which belonged to the stone class of meteorites: here near Schaffhausen a man was shot in an open field through the arm, under circumstances which pointed only to a meteorite projectile. The case observed in France last year, when a farmer saw a stone fall beside him in a field and sold it to a museum only to become involved in a lawsuit, can still be remembered. These items are relatively insignificant, although certainly interesting knowledge. Many other infinitely greater ones are enumerated in the annals of natural history. A rain of stones fell near Shahabad in Hindostan in 1810, killing people and inflaming buildings. On the night of September 4, 1511 hundreds of stones fell in northern Italy; heavy pieces were brought to Milan by peasants; a monk lost his life due to this rain of stones and animals were killed in great numbers. Even the annals of the Chinese have reported, for centuries before our era, many cases of luminous meteors that fell to Earth. In 616 BC, according to them, a fireball appeared in the sky from which stones fell to Earth after an explosion, killing ten people and smashing a wagon. Similarly, Greek and Roman writers mention the stone rain. Even the christian Middle Ages, which was only concerned with the creator and his family, not with the Creation, did not leave these strange manifestations of heaven completely ignored. Numerous observations of meteorites descending to Earth were recorded in modern times; Kesselmeyer, in his treatise on the origin of meteorite cases given to the Senkenberg Society in 1860, lists 647 meteoritic iron and stone falls with greater or lesser reliabililty. Many stones whose falls were observed in the glowing state have been collected, examined, and preserved; rocks which were sometimes identified as metals, sometimes mixtures of metals or even coal and other organic elements.

However, the actual nature and history of development of these bodies, their origin, and their relationship to the Earth and other bodies of the universe, has remained shrouded in a seemingly impenetrable darkness.

The French physicist [Jean-André] Deluc made the first attempt to find an explanation for the fact of the falling "fireballs" of Earth "sent by the Gods, [?] Drakel giving forth Batylien", aerolites, meteorological, or aerial stones. He tried to prove that they were ejections from the volcanoes of Earth because, as a matter of fact, some of the compositions of many meteorites coincides with that of many volcanic rocks and outflows, or at least very similar to them. This attempt failed because of the lack of enough ejecting power in our volcanoes, which was soon proven by calculation, and as there are such enormous meteorite masses found on the Earth's surface. In the state of Oregon, North America, below 40° 35' at the Pacific Ocean, there is an iron meteorite block whose part projecting above ground was estimated by [John] Evans, who took a piece of it, at 10,000 kilos. The most famous block of meteoritic iron was brought by [Peter Simon] Pallas traveling from Siberia — famous because it prompted [Ernst] Chladni to pronounce the current theory of the nature of meteorites — weighing 688 kilos —[Karl Ludwig von] Reichenbach estimates the annual weight of falling rock masses to 4,500 Zentner.

The idea expressed by [Heinrich Wilhelm Matthias] Olbers in 1795, that these meteorolites are not ejecta of Earth's volcanoes, but those of the Moon, an idea which [Pierre-Simon] Laplace considered acceptable, and was confirmed by many mathematicians by calculation, as the possibility was not contradictory: nevertheless, it gave way after considering all the necessary and favorable combinations in the positions of the Earth and Moon so that a single meteorite with incoming speed of about 2,300 meters per second would reach the Earth far too rarely to explain the numerous meteorites.

Likewise, the opinion expressed by other researchers that meteorites are products of the atmosphere or congregations of atmospheric origin derived from the Earth's surface could not be reconciled with the great distances, up to forty miles calculated for some flares, from which the meteorites fall to the Earth, and the extraordinary thinning of the atmosphere at an altitude of only ten miles, where solid bodies could not stay in place to accumulate up to masses as heavy as those which fall down to the Earth.

It remained, therefore, as the most acceptable hypothesis of those remaining, when in 1819 Chladni denied these luminous meteors and glowing meteor stones falling to Earth their meteorological nature and declared them to be cosmic bodies, with the stars, likely fragments of a shattered larger planet or independent planetary bodies whose orbits approach the Earth's orbit and in their relative smallness follow the attraction of the Earth itself. This idea probably lead to the discoveries, in that period from 1801 to 1807, of the four small planets orbiting in the middle point between Mars and Jupiter, by [Giuseppe] Piazzi, Olbers, and [Karl Ludwig] Harding, also maintaining that these were the shattered remains of a larger planet.

Yet Chladni suspected a connection of the meteorites and shooting stars with the comets; an idea that, like most new ideas, met with fierce opposition but after fifty years of strong support it seems to be confirmed, as found in the calculations of the orbits of some swarms of shooting stars by [Giovanni] Schiaparelli.

Throughout the year shooting stars are seen only as isolated, rapidly moving points of light, which cut through parallel paths of the fixed stars passing steadily and monotonously in the sky, however at certain times they appear to the surprised eye in great numbers, in whole swarms. The dense swarm appearing on November 12, according to H. A. [Hubert Anson] Newton's investigations, returns, at periods of 33 years, most brilliantly and numerous, appearing almost like a shower of light sparks to the astonished terrestrial dwellers.

Less numerous, although more constant in its annual return and referred to in legend as the "fiery tears of salvation (Laurentius)", is the maelstrom developing on the 10th of August from the constellation of Perseus. Compare this Perseid Swarm against the November Swarm, which pours forth from the leonine constellation and is called the Leonid Swarm by astronomers. The nights of April 18-20, June 26-30, and December 9-11 are also characterized by a high frequency of shooting stars.

Schiaparelli has recently made the brilliant discovery that the orbits of certain comets coincides with those of the designated shooting star swarms; a perception that was soon confirmed by other astronomers and which is highly unfavorable to Chladni's hypothesis about the cosmic nature of the meteorites. For it is arguably not possible that the small luminous bodies, which appear to us as shooting stars on the designated days, belong to the tail of a comet passing through or coming near to the Earth's orbit, and it seems reasonably well possible that the individual parts of this comet tail, diverted from their orbit and following the Earth's gravity, are able to reach the Earth as meteorites passing through as balls of light, like Chladni suspected.

Before the invention of the telescope by [Galileo] Galilei only the largest comets entered into the knowledge of man. Even today, most are not seen by people because of their distance from Earth or unfavorable observing times for astronomers. More recently, there have been so many comets discovered with the high-powered telescopes that one can assume their number is many thousands and that Kepler was right in saying that the number of comets in space is greater than the number of fish in the sea. Perhaps every day one or more comets approach the Earth so close that parts of their often twenty million mile long tail appear to us at night as the sporadic shooting stars. Even so, meteorites fall to Earth at all times, although only very few are seen and noticed by civilized man and so do not become public knowledge.

Based on the results from the latest astronomical research, the meteorites are pieces of foreign celestial bodies, indeed parts of a comet, and a study of their nature would therefore provide us a most excellent means for discovering the composition of the mass of these celestial bodies. This study, carried out with all the available means of modern chemistry, has revealed, as indicated above, that these meteorolites are composed from the same substances as our Earth.

Astronomical research on the physical properties of comets points to the indication that they are, so to speak, celestial bodies in the process of consolidation; they consist of a glowing liquid or vaporous core and a frozen shell, a mantle, which is less hard, and corpuscles far from each other's vicinity which form the long luminous tail: corpuscles that are often seen as shooting star swarms on Earth after the main body of the comet has long since passed. The distance between the corpuscles forming the tail would have to be very considerable, since even the smallest stars can be seen shimmering without loss of light through the mass forming the tail, a length of more than 20,000 miles. At their extraordinary distance from the core of the comet these laggards probably follow gravity and fall down to Earth as meteorites.

Microscopic research discovered in these stones a mixture of granular crystalline metal and mineral bodies, above all iron in conjunction and mixed with nickel, cobalt, titanium, copper, tin, silica, magnesium and other substances. Some aerolites consist almost entirely of metallic iron and its metal alloys, while others almost exclusively of non-metallic mineral bodies. Depending on whether the iron alloys form the main mass, more or less coherently, or are in grains consisting of a mixture of quartz and silica compounds (very often as bronzite, olivine, and augite), or with the latter appearing more or less uniformly mixed with meteoritic iron grains, they become pallasites or mesosiderites. A third class, the most frequent of the falling meteor stones, consists of a lighter or darker matrix that is formed from a mixture of meteoritic iron, pyrrhotite, chromium, titanite, olivine, augite, bronzite, anorthite, quartz, etc., in which mass is found numerous small or large light-colored spherical or pear-shaped globules, χονδροι [chondroi], apparently crystal druses of silica compounds stated as bronzite or enstatite. These mineralogically difficult-to-characterize, chemically very variable stones are called chondrites. Occasionally, these chondrites are completely black and in them are observed amorphous coal and bituminous substances that are probably decomposition products of organic compounds, about whose nature no conjecture could be made.

These chondrites, with their manifold undefinable inclusions, are now not merely conjectures; results from the most laborious research are contained in an epoch-making work: "The Meteorite (Chondrite) and its Organisms" by Dr. Otto Hahn, which recently left the Laupp'sche press in Tübingen, and places the view on the nature of the meteorites in a completely new and unexpected light.

Many of my readers will remember the notice about "The Primoridal Cell" published by the same author in 1879, i.e. about the simple organized bodies discovered in crystalline rocks. Who has read this book and not, regardless of his numerous depictions of the plants seen in the bedrock layers, entertained certain doubts! Even in meteorites, organisms and plant formations ought to be recognizable. Plants, one of which, akin to the algae and ferns, was described as _Urania Guilielmi_ in honor of the German Emperor and depicted on the 17th panel.

Notwithstanding some opposition against his discovery, the author of both these treatises has, concious of his good cause, not been discouraged from further pursuing his discovery. Hundreds of thin sections had to be made, scrutinized and compared to each other in order to confirm the prior result, and then to expand it, that some meteorites — indeed, in the available work Hahn mentions eighteen distinct ones from the chondrite set of meteorites, whose fall times are well known — consist almost completely of a mixture of organisms. So it is the microscope, which, as predicted by [Friedrich August von] Quenstedt (Handbook of Mineralogy p. 722), has solved the enigma of the composition of the meteorites. 

Hahn makes from his descriptions of the organisms, which he found in the 18 meteorites originating from various regions of the Earth, such classes as sponges, needle sponges, corals, and crinoids; he arrives at the result that the supposed enstatite and bronzite globules are nothing other than organisms, this tissue, equivalent to corals, crinoids, shell gastropods, molluscs, etc. combined with inorganic substances to the utmost, so to speak, is microscopic silica and lime coral colonies, sponges, etc., whose globules form the main mass of the rock. Hahn claims that both individuals of one and the same organic type in these chondrites consist of various mineral substances, sometimes similar to the composition of enstatite, others that of bronzite: and vice versa, that one and the same mineral substance occuring in the organisms of different meteorites was assimilated and used to build up their bodies that served them.

Incidentally, the thirst of the vegetation center, the apparent "crystallization center" in these globules always lays eccentrically, a property that as a distinguishing feature does not give weight to their being crystal druses. For even in crystal druses the beginning of crystallization is often eccentric and quite on the edge, when the druses settle on a solid body very early and a little less eccentric if this setting took place later; quite concentric if the beginning crystallization of the druses formed while buoyant in a liquid, as often occurs in organic substances, which is why oolite spheres are considered to be formed in a spring, a mineral water. However, the discovery of organisms in the chondrites, since held as glasses (!!) or cystallization processes, is correct and remains undoubtedly true for any who, with the requisite knowledge, engage in the investigation of these aerolites.

An excellent, highly accurate physical description of these chondrites is given by [Karl Wilhelm von] Gümbel in his instructive essay: "About the Stone Meteorites Found in Bavaria" (Minutes of the Mathematical-Physical Class of the Royal Bavarian Academy of Sciences in Munich, 1878), from which some sentences may be quoted here to mark the position that science has currently taken on this issue.

"If one examines the results of the investigation of this, albeit limited, group of stone meteorites, then the perception that comes to the fore is that, in spite of some differences in the nature of their conglomeration, they are nevertheless governed by completely identical structural relations. All are undoubtedly debris, composed of small and larger mineral grains, from the well-known roundish chondrules: which are usually completely preserved, but often appear as broken pieces, to the globs of metallic meteoritic substances, sulfur iron, and chromium iron. All these fragments are glued together, not cemented by an intermediate substance or by a binder, as there are no amorphous, glassy or lava admixtures at all. Only the fusion crust and black constrictions, which often appear on clefts and are similar to the crust, consist of amorphous glass, which, however, originated after falling within our atmosphere. In this melted crust, the heavier melt-able and larger mineral grains are usually still embedded un-melted. The mineral splinters do not bear any traces of rounding or tumbling, they are sharp-edged and pointed. As for the chondrules, their surface is not smooth, as it would have been if they were the product of a roll, rather it is always uneven, mulberry-like, and warty or multifaceted with a projection of crystalline surfaces. Many of them are elongated, with a distinct rejuvenation or sharpening in one direction, as is the case with hailstones. Often you encounter pieces, which apparently must be regarded as parts of shattered chondrules. As an exception are twin-like connected beads, more commonly those in which meteoritic iron beads have grown. In numerous thin sections they are composed differently. Most often there is an eccentric, radiating fibrous structure which spreads from a point far from the center after tapering or slightly tattered lines spread like rays toward the outside. Since cuts made at various angles always reveal a columnar or needle-shaped arrangement, never leaves or lamellas in the substance forming these tufts, it seems to be columnar fibers from which such chondrules are built up. With certain cuts, according to this assumption, in the cross-sections of the fibers that are perpendicular to the length direction, only irregularly angular minute fields are observed, as if the whole was composed of small polyhedral granules. Sometimes they appear as if there were several systems radiating in different directions in a sphere, or as if the point of radiation were changed during its formation, so that a constant and seemingly confused elongated structure emerges. Towards the outside, against which the junction point of the radiating bundle is shifted unilaterally, the fiber structure normally becomes indistinct or replaced by a more granular aggregate formation. In none of the numerous ground-up chondrules could I observe that the tufts ran directly to the edge, as if the point of emission were outside the sphere, provided that it was completely preserved and not a mere shattered piece. The delicate transversely dividing fibers usually do not run along the entire length of the tuft, but rather they gradually sharpen, branch or end to allow others to take their place, so that in the cross sections, a manifold, mesh-like or netted drawing is created. These fibrils consist, as has often been described above, of a mostly lighter core with a darker envelope that is dissolved by acids, while the latter resists. Highly curious are the bowl-shaped constructions, which seem to be meteoritic iron, and generally only spread over a small part of the globules. The same unilateral striations, visible on the average as crescent bowed streaks, also appear inside the chondrules and provide strong evidence contrary to their being formed by a tumbling of some material, the entire arrangement of the tufted structure speaks to a resolution against their origin by tumbling. However, not all chondrules are the eccentric fibrous type; many, especially the smaller ones, have a fine-grained composition, as if they are composed of a mass of aggregated dust. Here too, the one-sided formation of the spheres is sometimes noticeable by an intensely greater compression of the dust pieces. — The most common type of stony meteorite is predominately that of the so-called chondrites, the composition and structure of which coincide so much that we do not see how a common origin and the initial cohesion of these chondrites — if not all meteorites — could be in doubt."

"The fact is that they enter our atmosphere as highly irregular pieces — apart from the shattering within into several fragments, which is common, but cannot be assumed in all cases, especially if, by direct observation, the falling of only a single piece is confirmed; it can be further concluded that they make their orbits in the heavenly space as demolished pieces of a single larger celestial body and in their absent-mindedness occasionally fall to Earth when they enter into the space of Earth's attraction. The lack of original lava-like amorphous constituents in connection with the external irregular form is likely to exclude from the geo- or cosmological points of view the assumption that these meteorites are ejections of lunar volcanoes, as is often claimed. — Therefore, the meteorites appear to be a kind of first process of encasing the celestial bodies, but since they contain metallic iron — to have been produced in the absence of oxygen and water."

Our author fully agrees with this judgment on the aggregate form of the meteorites, but with the reservation that, as I have said, those small spherical pear-shaped bodies, which are the main constituents of the stone meteorolites, are not individual minerals, but only organized ones, as well as almost the entire ripped and cracked silica matrix. In contrast to the meteorites described by Gümbel, in Knyahinya there is a slight shattered silica intermediate substance. "All Life" is a primeval forest or rather a small scale polyp and sponge forest, a chaos of forms grown on one another, almost oddly similar to present day, only everything infinitely smaller.

On 32 photographic plates, 142 figures depict a myriad of discovered organisms, amongst others of earthly creation, which were used for comparison. Unfortunately, our author has been tempted by an uncritical detractor to abandon his method of self-drawing as done in "The Primordial Cell" and to present only photographs for explanation and authentication, instead of his own drawings; both sidy by side would have satisfied the reader more! For as natural as photographic images depict a particular state, a certain area, which is precisely in the focus of the microscope, and if light and color conditions are favorable, they are insufficient to give an observer the idea of why this particular examined object maintains the characteristic, for which perspective drawings that he could recognize of the same are could be made by varying the focus (the visual range). 

The drawing of a longitudinally intersected, druse-like globule was made by me with the help of an artist experienced and skilled in the depiction of natural history, especially microscopic objects, the Professor [Friedrich Eduard (?)] Metzger himself. After the most careful consideration, we have that which is truly peculiar to random objects, i.e. sought the outward adherent ones from semblances caused by the refraction of light; it was initially reached while proving that the object was organized. I believe that we have succeeded better and more fully than the photographer, so perfect are his pictures, in accordance with the state of the photographic technique, in the various specimens of this organism in Table 1, 8, 9, 10, 11. Because of the delicacy of the grinding the partly foreign material covering the top of the object, and additional cracks which I thought to have originated by chance from the operation of sawing and grinding, were not drawn in order to avoid overloading the complicated, greatly enlarged, yet meticulous picture with trivial things. Perhaps structural relations that could have served to provide counter evidence that the object is an organized body have been omitted out of too great caution, for example, here and there a transverse partition in the branching fiber; we considered them to be equivalent to other concurrent lines that seemed to us as random cracks. In a word, the picture gives what I want to show the reader as being observed by me as the organism, it is intended to replace a long, difficult to understand description.

This illustrated body comes from the meteorite fall of Knyahinya in Hungary on June 9, 1866, which in some parts, that is, in a 27 pound piece reported as still lukewarm by the observer of the event, and the same having a penetrating garlic (selenium?) smell lasting three days. The stone came with rolling thunder out of a cloud as a glowing ball with a long tail, from which smaller ones came out on all sides. A large block weighing five and a half Zentner at the same time penetrated 11' deep into the ground of a meadow.

This organism has been designated by Hahn as a coral; it is very similar to the Favosites found in the oldest Silurian strata of the Earth's crust, as [Georg August] Goldfuss depicts these corals in his tables 26 and 27; as well as the Silurian Calamopora drawn by [Georg Amadeus Carl Friedrich] Naumann in the first table of his handbook. I chose this body, among the countless fragments of tissues — which in their large-cell structure are easily identifiable as plant tissue —, to represent them because it forms one of the chondrite globules to which the mineralogists gave special attention; globules which chemical analysis proves to be a kind of bronzite (enstatite), and which, because of their crystal druse form and columnar structure, resemble a crystalline body more than all else. The drawn individual is an approximately medium length section of one of these pear-shaped bodies; the upper and lower parts have been ground away, the edges are partly permeated by the iron silicate of the matrix; moreover, the whole organism is thoroughly transformed by a silicification of enstatite and the mentioned silica compounds.   

...
